Add GMMK Numpad (Default, Via) (#20067)
qmk/qmk_firmware: keyboards/gmmk/numpad/readme.md

# GMMK NUMPAD

> A 17 Key macropad made ans old by Glorious LLC, equiped with a WB32 microcontroller, with support for a rotary encoder.

Reviewer: Looks like there are some typos here:
```suggestion
A 17 Key macropad made and sold by Glorious LLC, equipped with a WB32 microcontroller, with support for a rotary encoder.
```

* Keyboard Maintainer: [GloriousThrall](https://github.com/GloriousThrall)
* Hardware Supported: GMMK Numpad

> * Hardware Availability: [GloriousPCGaming.com](https://www.gloriousgaming.com/products/gmmk-numpad)

Reviewer: That page says that GMMK Numpad supports both wired and wireless (Bluetooth 5.0 LE) connectivity; however, the code in this PR does not seem to have any kind of wireless support.  This loss of functionality should at least be noted in the readme.

Make example for this keyboard (after setting up your build environment):

    make gmmk/numpad:default

Flashing example for this keyboard:

    make gmmk/numpad:default:flash

See the [build environment setup](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_build_tools) and the [make instructions](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_make_guide) for more information. Brand new to QMK? Start with our [Complete Newbs Guide](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/newbs).

## Bootloader

Enter the bootloader in 3 ways:

* **Bootmagic reset**: Hold down the Num key and plug in the keyboard

> * **Keycode in layout**: Press the Num+Del key which is mapped to `QK_BOOT`

Reviewer: Only 2 ways are mentioned here.  Does the PCB have any kind of a hardware reset button (for emergency usage, if some broken firmware version had been flashed)?

Also do the mentioned ways work when the board still has the Glorious Core firmware, or some other method needs to be used to flash the QMK firmware for the first time?

Reviewer 2: There is a hardware reset button that's between the 2U `0` key and the `. Del` key on top of the PCB, which is accessible via a hole on the plate with a thin pin tool like a SIM card tool or paperclip.

## Broken

> * Slider does not function

Reviewer: There are a couple of keyboards with sliders in QMK (`keebwerk/nano_slider`, `ungodly/launch_pad`); they map the slider to a MIDI controller input, which then can be used by some software on the host side.  However, I can understand that you may not want to enable MIDI support in the default firmware due to compatibility concerns.

One option is adding a separate keymap which supports the slider by mapping it to MIDI.

Author: I've attempted this however I get an error regarding not enough endpoints.

Reviewer: Ugh, apparently WB32F3G71 has only 3 bidirectional endpoints, like STM32F4x1.  So you may need the same workaround if you want to fit VIA + MIDI there:
```make
KEYBOARD_SHARED_EP = yes
```
This may bring some compatibility issues though, because the 6KRO keyboard protocol will now go over the same endpoint as NKRO, media keys and mouse emulation.  However, many STM32F4x1-based boards use that option.

(No idea whether WB32F3G71 has other specific compatibility issues though — I don't have any devices with that chip.)

Author: I will add it as a separate keymap for now, for some reason adding it to the default map will cause it to not build anymore.

Author: I'm getting, even when I add analog.c and analog.h
```
| 
 | /usr/lib/gcc/arm-none-eabi/12.2.0/../../../../arm-none-eabi/bin/ld: /tmp/ccgN9wGW.ltrans0.ltrans.o: in function `matrix_scan.isra.0':
 | /home/cameronv/projects/qmk_rustedaperture/./keyboards/gmmk/numpad/keymaps/default/keymap.c:52: undefined reference to `analogReadPin'
 | collect2: error: ld returned 1 exit status
 | 
make[1]: *** [builddefs/common_rules.mk:267: .build/gmmk_numpad_default.elf] Error 1
make: *** [Makefile:392: gmmk/numpad:default] Error 1
Make finished with errors
```

Reviewer: For the analog support to work, you need to add `SRC += analog.c`, and also add `halconf.h` with `#define HAL_USE_ADC TRUE` and `mcuconf.h` with `#define WB32_ADC_USE_ADC1 TRUE` (you can find a sample in `keyboards/handwired/onekey/evb_wb32f3g71/`, although those files enable more peripherals).  Also you may need to run `qmk clean` after adding those files (the addition of extra files might not be properly picked up by the build system).

Author: Thank you, got the slider working now.

> * Rotary input push button (mapped to gpio)

Reviewer: If the push switch connects that GPIO to GND, you can add support for it by declaring that GPIO pin as an extra row pin (because your matrix is `ROW2COL`, and therefore row pins are inputs), then using any matrix location in that row for the encoder key (connecting a matrix input to GND will result in all matrix locations in that row appearing as pressed).  You can also use the `MATRIX_MASKED` feature to mask all other locations in that row; this will avoid some useless keymap lookups when the encoder is pressed.

If the push switch is connected in some other way, at the moment the only solution to support it properly is implementing a custom matrix (which would unfortunately duplicate a lot of the standard matrix code).

Author: I cannot find the pinout for the wb32f3g7. from using a continuity checker the rotary encoder sw and gnd are connected to 2 pins on the microprocessor

Author: they appear to be commented to the pins directly beside the placement marker (dot on the Microcontroller)

Reviewer 2: Refer to the [docs](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/pull/16871#issuecomment-1436188572) here.
* https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/pull/16871#issuecomment-1436188572

Author: @adophoxia is the pinout the same for the WB32F3G7 vs WB32FQ95?

Author: @sigprof I've discovered that it is connected to VDD and PB8, when I add PB8 to the matrix row I get the following warning 
```
⚠ gmmk/numpad: led_config: numpad.c: Unable to parse g_led_config matrix data
```

Author: Hub16 uses a custom matrix to get the encoder presses but this seems a little out of my scope of knowledge at the moment.

Author: I got the rotary button working however it wont be customizable with via atm

Reviewer 2: You can configure the VIA Definition JSON that it'll be used for the encoder with this guide [`here`](https://www.caniusevia.com/docs/layouts#optional-rotary-encoder-combined-switchrotary-encoder-footprint).

Author: @adophoxia the issue is that the way I got it working was not adding it to the matrix. if you check the most recent commit you will understand.

Author: rotary is added just not the push button, sorry should have specified. the push button is fixed as KC_MUTE since its not part of the matrix
